# NIM - Game

## Introduction

NIM is a strategy game played by two players. Matches are arranged in several rows. The players take turns in taking the sticks away. A player must take one or more sticks. However, only matches from a single row may be taken.

The player who can take the last matchstick(s) wins.

## Exercise

A NIM game is to be developed as a console application. These requirements are to be taken into account:

### Requirements

- Initialisation of the game: The number of rows and number of sticks can either be entered by the user or randomly generated by the programme. Both variants are permissible.
- Display: The current score (number of sticks per row) must be displayed in an understandable form on the console. When the game is over, the winner should be displayed.
- Gameplay: The player takes turns with the computer. When it is the player's turn, a message prompts him to make his move.
- User turn: The user can enter in which row how many sticks are to be removed. Incorrect entries by the user should not cause the programme to crash.
- Computer move: The computer can make a valid move. A [winning strategy](https://www.hep-verlag.ch/pub/media/import/public/6486/mathematikaufgaben.pdf) can (but does not have to, but gives extra points) be implemented. Cf. different "levels" are also conceivable.
- Correctness: The moves must be applied correctly.
- Usability: With the help of the displayed messages, it should be clear to the user how to use the game.

## Specifications

### Header

For the implementation of the game I need these header-includes:

```c
#include <stdio.h>    /* Function library: Standard input/output */
#include <string.h> /* String Library */
#include <time.h> /* Initialisation of the random generator */
```

### User Input

For reading user input you can use the function `scanf`. An example of how to use this function is shown in the figure below.

If you only want to read a single number, you can use this function.

## Procedure

### Analysis

- Draw a UML activity diagram or structure diagram showing the process and the individual steps of the game. Think about which actions you want to divide into further actions.
- Think about which data you need to record the state of the game.
- Define the order in which you will implement and test the functions.
- Define how/if you test the individual functions (e.g. with the display function, you can see immediately if something is wrong. You can record this and say that you do not test this explicitly).

### Implementation

- Define C-functions for all actions.

```c
void introGame();
void initGame(int *zeilearray);
void displayGame(const int *zeilearray, const char gameObj);
void playWithYoda();
int checkInput(const int *zeilearray, const int maxLimit, const char* msg, const int rowFlag);
short endOfGame(const int *zeilearray);
void showWinner(const char *winner);
void AI(int *zeilearray, int *zug);
```

- Define appropriate data structures
- Define the appropriate variables to store the match status.
- Implement and test the functions.

## Contributing

This is a personal learning project for me. Please feel free to fork this repo. Pull request to submit more programs.

## Feedback

If you find any bug or have any suggestion, please do file issues. I am graceful for any feedback and will do my best to improve this package.

## License

[MIT](LICENSE) © 2020 Ioannis Christodoulakis
